Igor/ethereum attestation (#1685)
radicle-dev/radicle-upstream: docs/ethereum_attestation.md

# RFC: Ethereum attestation

* Author: @CodeSandwich
* Date: 2021-03-05
* Status: draft
* Community discussion: n/a

## Motivation

> The attestation between Link and Ethereum is a valuable building block for a user identity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The attestation between Radicle Link and Ethereum is a valuable building block for a user identity.
```

Author: Fixed

It brings the Link reputation coming from projects and contributions to the
Ethereum world of DAOs and donations, where it's important to know who's behind an address.
On the other hand, it lends Ethereum account reputation with its assets and undeniable history
to Link to build user's trust in the identity.

## Overview

This RFC is built on top of the [identities spec][identities].
It introduces support for Ethereum address claims on Link
and a smart contract on Ethereum to make Link identity claims on Ethereum.

## Link identity JSON extension

The identity doc `payload` structure supports a new key: `https://radicle.xyz/ethereum/claim/v1`.

> It can be used only in person identities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be used only in `Person` identities.
```

Author: Is it right? `person` is an identity kind as a high level concept, `` `Person` `` looks more like a name of a specific Rust type

> Under this key there is stored an Ethereum address claim in this format:

Reviewer: Might be good to rephrase to transmit that it _can_ be stored an Ethereum address.

```suggestion
Under this key, an Ethereum address claim can be stored with this format:
```

Author: It seems more ambiguous, the claim MUST be stored and the format MUST be obeyed. I'm afraid of losing that clarity.

Reviewer: hm. when I read the current sentence, I read that a claim must exist, whereas claiming an Ethereum address is an optional extension. That's what my suggestion tries to clarify.

Reviewer: Ok, what about:

> Under this key, an Ethereum address claim is stored in this format:

Author: Perfect, fixed

- `address` - the claimed Ethereum address, encoded according to [EIP-55][eip-55],
e.g. using [ethers.js][ethers-addr]

> - `expiration` - the claim expiration timestamp, encoded as a [JavaScript Date][date].

Reviewer: > `expiration` - the claim expiration timestamp, encoded as a [JavaScript Date][date].

Since we have changed the type of the `expiration` date, I just want to make sure this is still correct as I am afraid it's not.

Author: I think that it's still valid, we've just added verification of that format.

The example calls are based on the standard [client JSON RPC API][rpc] and should be exposed
by your favourite Ethereum client library.
It's important that the client must be trusted not to hide the events.

- Use [getLogs][rpc-logs] to get the newest `Claimed` event filtered for the given ethereum address
- Get the event's `transactionHash` field and use it to fetch the transaction which emitted it with
[getTransactionByHash][rpc-tx]
- Validate that the transaction signature matches its data and the ethereum address.
For reference the signature payload content is listed [here][rpc-sign].
- Read the Link identity root hash from the transaction data
- Verify that the Link identity doc claims back the Ethereum address,
see [Discovery from a Link identity](#discovery-from-a-link-identity)

## Discovery from a Link identity

When you know a Link identity, you can find the claimed Ethereum address.
Obtain the tip of its identity chain and read the Ethereum address from the identity doc
`address` field in section `https://radicle.xyz/ethereum/claim/v1`, unless it's expired.
You need to verify that the given Ethereum address claims back the Link identity root,

> see [Discovery from an Ethereum address](#discovery-from-an-ethereum-address).

Reviewer: suggestion: Have a high-level "Discovery" section with two sub-sections "From an Ethereum address" and "From a Radicle Link Identity"

Author: Fixed

## Revocation of an attestation

When your attestation for whatever reason is no longer valid,
you should revoke it as soon as possible.
Only one claim needs to be revoked to break the attestation,
but to improve security you should revoke both sides if you can.

To revoke a claim on Link, update the identity doc and publish it in a new revision.
You can change the claimed Ethereum address or remove
the `https://radicle.xyz/ethereum/claim/v1` section altogether.
The other Link nodes will not notice this update until they fetch the new revision.

To revoke a claim on Ethereum, call the `claim` function in `Claims` contract.

> You can claim a different Link identity root or the `0` root to revoke any claim you may have.

Reviewer: These two sentences seem disconnected. Reading the first seem that just calling `claim` will be enough to revoke, whereas in the seconds it starts by talking about claiming another identity.

Author: Hmm, the first sentence describes the action and the second its details, `claim` can't be called without any parameters. Do you have an idea for a clearer expression of that?

Reviewer: It's good now :ok_hand:
